so how do you pick your Niche you
probably have so many things you're very
passionate about so many things you're
good at you have so much experience it
may feel very limiting to you to have to
pick just one thing hey my name is
shelene Johnson welcome to this edition
of build your tribe where today I am
going to simplify once and for all how
it is you choose your
[Music]
Niche let's first start with one of the
reasons why I think people are so
confused and overwhelmed by this whole
process is because there's a way of
looking at your Niche that only relates
to social media and then there's a way
that you probably have thought about
Niche all of your life and they are
different for most of us when we think
about Niche it's like well I work in the
medical sales industry that's a niche I
work in the health and wellness industry
you know that's my Niche and that's
generally true in like the real world
but when we're talking about social
media it's more specific than that I'm
just going to assume that it goes
without saying you already know you need
to pick a niche and that's why you're
watching or listening to this addition
of build your tribe but I just want to
reiterate I want to reinforce that
notion you have that it's important for
you to pick a niche because listen I've
been teaching entrepreneurship to
thousands tens of thousands of people
over the last 25 years and I can tell
you if you want to succeed you have to
do this you have to pick one thing and
I'm going to explain to you how it needs
to be even more specific when we're
talking about growing your notoriety the
people who know you like making certain
that more people are aware of what it is
you offer like obviously if you want
sales if if you want to grow your
notability if you want to help more
people people have to know about you the
quickest way that people are going to
find out about you is if you are known
for one thing I.E your Niche so if for
any reason you have stumbled across one
of those videos where people are like
you know you can be multifaceted don't
you don't have to Niche down they're
right you don't and you won't be
successful I mean you won't be as
successful as you could I wish it wasn't
so but it absolutely is and there's no
getting around it and today it is more
important than ever it's essential like
you will not be able to grow on social
media unless you pick and narrow down
your Niche and here's why and I just I
just want to go over this very very
briefly and then we're going to get to
how it is you select your Niche however
by understanding truly understanding
this concept it's going to motivate you
to do the work the uncomfortable work of
niching down to a point that's feels way
too niched if something feels like way
too niched you're probably on to
something so here's what you need to
keep in mind think about the last time
you found something kind of interesting
on Instagram or Tik Tok it was a video
where you're like oh this is good this
is a l let's just give you a
hypothetical oh this lady is showing me
how to decorate my home on a budget and
this is phenomenal I'm going to save
this and then the next thing you do
before you figure out if you're going to
follow them or not you go to their page
and if you're looking at the rest of
their content and it's all over the
place like there's some content there
about how to redecorate your place on a
budget and then there's also some
content of them making organic food and
then there's some content of them on
vacation then there's some content of
them homeschooling their kids you're
just not going to follow and you're also
not going to tell people hey you have to
follow you need to follow this person
who I found who talks about all these
different things that's never going to
happen we only do that when we know
someone for something very specific my
co-host and my son Brock Johnson is a
great example of this when we started
the insta clubhub when we started
teaching people Instagram coaching at
that time he was posting a variety of
helpful content on how to grow on all
social media platforms and his account
was growing like most people's at a a
nice clip a relatively slow and steady
but slow very slow and then as an in an
effort to like prove to our students how
important it is to even nich down
further because the tips that he was
giving would work whether you're trying
to grow on YouTube or Tik Tok or
SnapChat or Instagram but instead he was
like all right I'm just going to focus
only on Instagram growth and in less
than one year's time his account grew
over 400,000 followers and the same is
true of countless of our students who we
regularly teach them the importance of
niching down it's a training that we do
on the regular because even once people
recognize okay I need to Niche down they
still have this fear of doing it by the
way Shameless plug for our Instagram
coaching program if you're not familiar
with it I highly recomend when you check
it out we always have specials going on
I will put a link at the top of my show
description so you can check out insta
clubhub and um see for yourself how it
is we help people to massively grow
their Instagrams but I'm just going to
tell you like this little tip we can't
help people grow unless they Niche down
and the same is even true of my account
so when I really Niche down my account I
get growth we're going to get to that in
just a moment like how you can Niche and
unn and how you don't have to be tied or
married to one specific Niche but in the
times where I'm like I don't care about
growing my Instagram following I already
have 700,000 followers or whatever it
was I'm like I want to know the
followers that I have and I just want to
post all the things that I'm interested
in and I did that and it was fun and it
was a lot easier facts but my account
didn't grow didn't grow at all it wasn't
until recently where I'm like okay I I
got to buckle down and even though I
have all of these things that I want I
want to talk about ADHD I want to talk
about entrepreneurship I want talk about
menopause I want to talk about being an
empty nester I want to talk about
exercise I want to talk about hair and
makeup and and accessories I want to
talk about all of these things and the
woman who I want to help she's
interested in all these
things but it doesn't grow my account it
wasn't until again I was like all
right fine I'm going to do it I'm going
to Niche down even further I'm going to
pick one topic and talk just about that
on my feed post okay so when we're
talking about niching down please know
that everything that I'm going to share
with you today what I mean by niching
down and where it is you need to do so
is on your main page so if we're talking
Instagram or Tik Tok or even YouTube it
is the content that people see that
you've posted most recently and that
they use to determine if in fact they
want to follow you they're looking at
that it's all on one very specific
subject serving one very specific kind
of person even though it might help lots
of people but if you have like one
person in mind that you want to help
that's what I mean by you really need to
specifically Niche down even further on
your feed post however you can talk
about all of the things that are
interesting to you as I do in your
stories when you go live your shorts on
YouTube like there's lots of places
where you have the ability to like as
Brock likes to say Let your freak flag
fly like all your different colors all
your different sides and as a matter of
fact it's something that we teach you to
do in your stories because once you
attracted people let's say again let's
just say that you are that woman who you
are very passionate about lots of things
but one of the things you're really good
at and some of the content that pops off
for you is how to decorate your home on
a budget okay so you you're likeing okay
I get it it's not my only passion fine
but it's one of my passions for sure and
I like helping that woman okay so I
convince you okay girlfriend we're gonna
that's all you're going to post you're
going to double down on that type of
content I would also tell you at the
same time but in your stories I want you
to be who you are I want you to share
all the things you're passionate about
because once we decide to follow someone
for whatever reason like maybe they're a
health influencer or they're a financial
adviser whatever name the niche then we
start looking at your stories to figure
out if we want to buy from you we buy
from people who we know like and trust
and we really can't tell a lot about you
from your very specific niched cont
content while yes it's helping me to
figure out how to redecorate on a budget
it's not telling me like a little bit
about like are you married what do you
stand for are you funny are you likable
are you relatable those are the things
that help us feel like we really know
someone and so I'm more likely follow me
for a second I'm more likely to buy that
course from you or to buy the network
marketing product that you offer if I
followed you for one thing and then I
start looking at your other areas of
social media like your stories and now I
know you and I like you and when I like
someone and I trust them then I'm like
oh okay cool I trust them so therefore I
feel comfortable buying this thing okay
so if you're following along just a
recap we can all agree that collectively
in 2024 as we move forward into 2025 we
are going to be more and more greedy and
conscientious about our follows we don't
follow people just because they're
interesting we're not going to follow a
new person because they have all these
different interests it just it's not
going to happen statistically speaking
it does not happen so if we want to get
people's eyeballs on us if we want to be
known so that we can sell things so we
can make an impact we have to Niche down
because we all agree that we're not
giving someone a follow unless they
serve a specific purpose for us okay
good we all agree there now shelene I
get it you're preaching to the choir
help me pick that thing how do I know
what my thing is I'm glad you asked okay
so first of all I need to tell you you
don't have to pick a niche that you're
going to be married to for the rest of
your life I have made a lot of money in
a lot of different niches but I had to
Niche down in one thing until I became
known for it before I could Branch out
into other things so I want you to start
by just making a list of the things
you're super passionate about here's the
litness test is it litness I don't even
know how you spell it or say it okay but
here's the test what are some of the
topics that when you overhear someone
else talking about it you have to like
hold yourself back because you want to
jump into the conversation you can't
help yourself but be a no- atall like
this this is your topic this is the
thing like you love you could talk about
it endlessly you could study it
endlessly you love it people see you as
the expert and you're very passionate
about it you're good at it you like it
you love it you're making a complete
list so you're probably going to have
like 10 things that you're like oh yeah
when I hear people talking about that I
have to jump into the conversation I
want to lead the conversation I want to
be the person to explain to them how all
of this works start with that list
that's the what that's the what things
you are passionate about it doesn't mean
that every single one of them you have
equal feelings for okay now I want you
to think about who who is it that you
have compassion for who is it you really
like helping them maybe because you were
once in their shoes maybe because of a
past experience maybe because you really
relate to them maybe because it's part
of the community that you feel like you
are a part of maybe be because of your
own expertise you're like I I just feel
when I'm talking to this type of
individual this group of people I know
my stuff I feel confident I feel secure
okay and I say that because I'm going to
give you my own example when I first
started niching down into fitness
Fitness is the industry okay and again
in the real world when we're not talking
about social media you can say I'm in
the fitness industry and that's niched
enough but it ain't niched enough in
social media in order for you to stand
out in social media you have to say
that's the industry what is the sub
category so what specifically is it that
I'm passionate about and who spe
specifically am I most compassionate for
so the way that I niched that down
further was I was very very passionate
about Fitness that felt fun didn't take
itself so seriously that was like a mix
of kickboxing and dance and hipop and
all these crazy things it wasn't about
muscle origin and insertion it wasn't
that serious it wasn't that precise it
was fun it was all about fun and
certainly a lot more Dancy and
choreographed I we're getting so niched
right now that's different from boot
camp that's different from strength
training that's different from personal
training like I have a very specific
Niche it's very choreographed it was
geared towards women it was very fun it
was very focused around dance music
sound effects blah blah blah okay who
did I want to help who was I most
compassionate for and who did I feel the
most this is really important you guys
who did I feel the most confidence in
myself when I was talking to them them
well it wasn't personal trainers and it
wasn't people who were like uber crazy
fit it wasn't people who were like 5%
body fat it was women who were my age
who also didn't take themselves so too
seriously who also like always kind of
wish they had made the cheer squad or
the dance team and like just loved music
and they just wanted to enjoy forget the
fact that they were working out for an
hour that's who I wanted to help because
I didn't feel confident or compassion
for the Uber super Elite athlete or the
person who took themselves super
seriously and you know wanted to just
focus on form I I wanted that person who
just wanted to exercise and forget about
the fact they were exercising that's who
I wanted to help so now I want you to
take the same practice and I want you to
look at the list of all of the things
that you are passionate about right so
when I did this I had a long list it
wasn't just Fitness I was yeah I had
passion for Fitness but it wasn't the
thing I was most passionate about I also
had passion for helping especially moms
figure out how to start a business from
home I was also really passionate about
selling used cars I know you've maybe
you've heard that story maybe you
haven't but yeah your girls started off
by having a used car lot in the state of
Michigan it was the all Michigan auto
swap meet and so I was passionate about
that and I was also passionate about
jewelry and I was passionate about hair
and makeup and I was also very
passionate about parenting and all of
these things I knew I could make
businesses from them like I knew how to
create businesses from them so when
you're looking at your list of all the
things you're passionate about first get
rid of the ones where you're like I just
don't even know how this could be a
business get rid of those okay and I
want you to look at those things on your
list that you're passionate about and
that are remaining and ask yourself this
question this is my personal opinion
it's what I coach all of my students to
do because you can change your mind
later
later we all will you will too okay but
for right now you got to pick one and I
want you to pick the one that in the
next near future so the next six months
to three years There's an opportunity
for you to make money
there I picked Fitness even though I
wasn't extremely passionate it wasn't
the thing I was the most passionate
about but I I knew that there was this
opportunity because there was something
missing in the market I knew that there
wasn't a program like the thing that I
wanted to create for other Fitness
instructors and I knew that this was
something that was needed because people
were asking me for it so take a look at
your list and ask yourself okay which
one of these are people most interested
in which one of these is there a Gap in
the industry is there a need in the
market where is there an opportunity to
make money and again I think it's really
I know some people are like I have to
start with the money thing you don't
have to I'm just giving you my two cents
and I've done a lot with this I've
helped a lot of people to become
millionaires a lot of people to become
Millionaires and all of them probably
just like you were like uh if you don't
pick the thing that's going to make you
money your confidence will suffer not
just your bank account and you know I
don't think of money as like oh status
or like it can buy me things it's energy
it's it's just a number it's a score for
me and when I started realizing like
okay I can rack up some points points if
I do this one is going to I love this
one I'm super passionate about this idea
I'm not making money at this I'm going
to have to work a lot harder at this
this is going to be easy I knew it I'm
like the fitness thing right now based
on the timing this is going to be easy
and I know I'm going to feel that
momentum and that's exactly what
happened and I focused exclusive even
though I had all these other interests
they I didn't put them to rest I let
them simmer because listen to what I'm
about to say say once people know your
name then you can broaden your aim what
I mean by that is once people begin to
say hey oh do you follow shelene Johnson
no she's the one that created turbo no
she's she's the one that does those fun
workout programs once people started
introducing me that way once people
started suggesting that other people
follow me and bu my programs and they
they were giving me that tagline then I
knew I had become known so there's a
couple of way you'll know that it's an
appropriate time for you to either
broaden your
niche in terms of business rarely in
terms of social media listen I have
brought in my niche in business in
probably eight different Industries to
date and I've only been able to do that
here here's how when you know you can do
that when you're almost running that
business that niched business to a point
where you can almost set it and forget
it that means you've got a team in place
it always means you're going to go back
and check it it always means you're you
know checking it's like having children
you can't like have one kid and you're
like okay they can you know they're
potty trained I'm done no you have to
still have to check in but once you have
a a niche or a business that's in a
niche and you get to a place where
you've got the right team in place
you've got your Sops things are running
like clockwork and you've got the right
managers and systems and kpis in place
well then you can be like okay I think
I'm going to Branch off into this other
Niche right but that's how your
businesses can operate but in terms of
social media the second you start on
your own page talking about anything
other than just one very specific Niche
and of course there's multiple topics in
that Niche um but once you start
branching off into these other areas
you're going to see your followers fall
off it's it's true you can do that if
you can afford to right so I'm going to
give you my own example again so for the
last last uh like four or five years no
that's wrong for for the last nine
years I had really focused my social
media on entrepreneurship and
specifically targeting someone who was
easily distracted I love working with
the very easily distracted female
entrepreneur who's like I have a million
and one different things I know I can do
I'm just like easily distracted I need
somebody to simmer me down and give me
the right steps in the right order and
and keep me on on track I and so my
content was very much focused on that
with a lot of emphasis on like the
easily distracted part so there's a lot
of humor in it and I never posted
Fitness well that grew my business to
help me grow my marketing impact Academy
and the insta clubhub those are two
different business centers that we have
that really Target entrepreneurs okay so
therefore my content was very Niche to
attract the female easily distracted
wannabe entrepreneur okay but at the
moment we're going all in on a different
Niche a different business that we've
had since 2018 and that is a a Fitness
Nutrition healthy habits program that's
geared towards per menopausal and
menopausal women and I'm compassionate
about helping this group of women
because the information just not out
there for her so at the moment because I
want to now I want to attract someone
who maybe doesn't want to be an
entrepreneur but they are
struggling with the way their body and
everything else has changed after age 40
and as they're approaching menopause and
maybe even after menopause and I want to
help them understand a lot of things
that their doctors are not helping them
understand so now my content at the
moment has shifted so look my personal
social media Niche has switched again so
to reiterate you start by becoming known
first you can't flip-flop and switch
back and forth until such time that
you've got a following and people know
who you are and why they're following
you become known for that thing that
thing is something that once you become
known for it then you can Branch off
into other areas in the meantime while
you're really niched down this is just a
reminder on your feed post you can still
be all over the place as you should be
in your stories you don't find a niche
you pick a niche you just pick one of
those things on that list the thing
where you think okay there there's an
opportunity for me to get a quick win
to get some momentum to build my
confidence to make this thing happen
financially and it aligns with this
group of people who I am very
compassionate for people who I feel
confident in front of them and I want to
help them that's your Niche right there
and the more you narrow it down the more
you feel like oh my gosh this is almost
like too Niche down too selective I feel
like I'm ostracizing some people you're
probably not remember that social media
algorithms are listening to every single
word that's in your videos they're
reading every single letter of your
caption they're reading every single
piece of text that you put over your
content you don't even have to use a
hashtag like you can if you want but
they're unnecessary the algorithm is
listening and reading and compiling all
these things and if you're talking about
a multitude of different topics the
algorithm doesn't know who to serve your
content up to but if you're always
talking about DIY interiors and and
shopping on a budget making your home
look like it's been decorated by a
designer the algorithms is like gives
you Authority and credibility and put
your content in front of the same group
of people and it just keeps expanding
and expanding and expanding that's how
you're able to grow as quick as possible
using social media lastly I'm going to
answer the questions I always get at
this point in the training that I do or
when I'm giving people this type of
coaching they will say like okay so what
if my account up until this point my
social media account has been focused on
chiropractic care or it's just been a
personal account and now I want to go
all in shellene with uh DIY home decor
do I need to start a new account or can
I just switch things over I wish I had a
pat answer for you but it truly depends
if you've got a pretty large following
already my personal recommendation is to
keep that account and shift it over but
you have to remember you're going to
lose a ton of followers you just are
because there's some people are going to
be like wait a second where did the
Chiropractic Care go I was here for the
Chiropractic stuff where did that go so
you are going to lose some followers but
the flip side is you're starting even if
you lose half of them you're still
starting with more than if you started
from zero right then people will also
say should I have two accounts one for
you know each one of the niches or
interest that I have and I to that I say
almost never know like no no no not
unless you have a team of social media
people who like just just no just
Absolut just let's not do it it's just
it never works I don't know anyone who
can make that work unless like I said
you have a very established team and
they can create content for you
otherwise like how are you going to keep
up with that next how long before you
know if the niche you picked is the
right Niche or the wrong Niche again
there is no Pat answer for that because
you might have picked the right Niche
but your content sucks it it might not
be because you picked the wrong thing
it's because like you just you just
don't know how to post to Tik Tok and
Instagram and YouTube which like by the
way again Shameless plug for insta
clubhub but you know when you join insta
clubhub and you sign up for the year
instead of just paying for the month we
give you a an audit of your account and
when we do those audits
99.9% of the time the feedback that I'm
giving is there's a problem with the
content even if it's the right Niche the
problem is you're not posting the right
content in the right way so I always say
before you throw out the niche figure
out if you're the problem figure out if
it's your content that isn't working
because the niche might be right
nonetheless if the niche is right if
your content is great content is popping
you're doing all the right things based
on what's working today on Instagram and
in social media if you're doing all the
right things and it's still just not
working well I have to tell you it takes
time I would not give up for at least
six months you just never know when
something's going to pop off and
personally I think one of the best
places to test this at the moment when
I'm recording this in the first quarter
of 2024 is Tik Tok it's a great place to
just like test because if you can get
something to go viral there that's what
the algorithm is going to keep looking
for and if you keep creating that
content you're going to know that you're
on to something the sales happen on
Instagram so so it's a good testing
ground on Tik Tok great testing ground
but you're really going to get those
conversions on Instagram because again
once people follow you on Instagram
they're getting to know you on your
stories I get this question all the time
should I switch overnight cold turkey my
content or should I gradually start
peppering it into my feed post I think
that's a great question I personally
really kind of like the idea of
peppering it in and getting a feel for
how are people responding what kind of
comments are they giving you what kind
of feedback are you getting and if it's
getting a little bit of traction then
you start doing more and more of that
content and then you go all in but again
I want you to be prepared for the
Fallout before your account really
starts to take off it's going to have a
decline because you're going from people
who just know you and like you already
they're never going to be your customers
but they like already know you and like
you and they're already expecting this
like weird hodg Podge kitchen sink worth
of content that you post and now when
you're just posting one specific type of
content they're like it's not even that
they aren't liking it it's just the
algorithm won't serve it up to them it's
going the algorithm's going to slowly
build and find you people that just want
that Niche be prepared for that it's
normal it's hard but it's normal and
it's one of the ways you're going to
know that you're on the right track so
lastly I want to remind you that this
takes patience and it takes
determination and it's one of the
reasons why there are so few people who
actually take this advice and the ones
who do kill it most people are like oh
it's uncomfortable oh no I'm losing some
followers oh no I'm I'm getting bored
with just this specific Niche and you'll
just keep
struggling I'm sorry it's true I I wish
it wasn't because I I love posting about
all the all the stuff too I do but I'm
telling you and every other expert on
this platform has told you you have to
Niche down until people know your name
you need to narrow your aim and by the
way if you happen to be an entrepreneur
who's over 40 you're in that two I call
that the 2.0 version of yourself you're
like in midlife or you you're making a
career change you're shifting into a new
Niche and you're trying to figure out
like how do I Rebrand myself like what
should my Instagram look like I want to
recommend you watch this video where I
actually walk you through a complete
Instagram bio makeover I will put a link
in our show description because you
actually want to see what it looks like
to do a complete account makeover I
think you'll really like that one and
I've got a whole series of videos here
about branding and growing your account
on Instagram I would love to invite you
I would love to ask you to make sure you
get subscribed subscribed to this
channel Brock and I put out content
twice a week we spend a lot of time
researching it your comments mean the
world to us but more than anything we
really need you to subscribe so if you
did so today because I begged for it and
it's my birthday week comment below this
video hey I subscribed because it's your
birthday I hope you like your gift in
closing it is my goal to be brief to be
bright to make it fun and then be done
ladies and gentlemen we're done thanks
for joining
me
[Music]
w